docs: TSS-Library Proposal (#13808)
hashgraph/hedera-services: platform-sdk/docs/proposals/DS-0x/DS - Tss block signing - Cryptography APIs.md

> # Design proposal TSS Cryptography API

Author: Renamed the file

## Summary

Provide necessary pieces for signing blocks with TSS

| Metadata           | Entities                                               | 
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Designers          | Austin, Cody, Edward, Rohit, Maxi, <br/> Platform team | 
| Functional Impacts | Platform team. Release engineering. Devops             |
| Related Proposals  | TSS                                                    |
| HIPS               | ?                                                      |

## Purpose and Context

> The goal of a threshold signature scheme is to enable a group of participants (shareholders) to securely and efficiently perform signature generation while preserving security even in the presence of up to a threshold number of adversary parties.

Reviewer: One option is to introduce two thresholds: corruption threshold, and reconstruction threshold. Corruption threshold means the max number of parties (technically number of shares) that can be under adversarial control. Reconstruction threshold is the number of honest parties that must participate in the protocol.

> The goal of a threshold signature scheme is to enable a group of participants (shareholders) to securely and efficiently perform signature generation while preserving security even in the presence of up to a threshold number of adversary parties.

Reviewer 2: If the corruption threshold is 1/3, what should the reconstruction threshold be?  1/3+1?

> The goal of a threshold signature scheme is to enable a group of participants (shareholders) to securely and efficiently perform signature generation while preserving security even in the presence of up to a threshold number of adversary parties.

Reviewer: I think the assumption is we have n = 3t + 1, so a reconstruction threshold of t is sufficient.
Note that the above applies to shares. The statement we want to make is that less than one-third stake is corrupt.
So, we are looking to use a threshold of one-half share, and therefore, we have n = 2t + 1.

This proposal covers the implementation of all necessary pieces to provide the consensus-node and block-node, the functionality to sign and verify blocks using Threshold Signature Scheme (TSS), and EC Cryptography.

> The overview of the process and background for TSS and how impacts functionally of the platform can be found [here](https://www.notion.so/swirldslabs/TSS-Threshold-Signature-Scheme-9e2676cc4f2a4650a8c0c33b774f3cf4).

Author: I will link Ed's proposal after it's finished

> The overview of the process and background for TSS and how impacts functionally of the platform can be found [here](https://www.notion.so/swirldslabs/TSS-Threshold-Signature-Scheme-9e2676cc4f2a4650a8c0c33b774f3cf4).

Reviewer 2: I don't think my proposal would be done before yours.  I can add a link from yours to mine in my proposal though.

- **EC ([Elliptic-Curves](https://crypto.stanford.edu/pbc/notes/elliptic))**: "Elliptic" is not elliptic in the sense of an "oval circle". In the field "Fp", an EC is like a non-connected cloud of points. All points satisfy an equation and all operations are performed modulo p. Some elliptic curves are pairing-friendly.
- **Bilinear Pairings**: Are mathematical functions used in cryptography to map two elements of different groups (in EC, the group is an elliptic curve) to a single value in another group in a way that preserves certain algebraic properties.
- **Fields**: Mathematical structures where addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division are defined and behave as expected (excluding division by zero).
- **Groups**: Sets equipped with an operation (like addition or multiplication) that satisfies certain conditions (closure, associativity, identity element, and inverses).

> - **Share**: Represents a piece of the public/private necessary elements to create or verify a signature. In TSS, a threshold number of shares is needed to validate a signature. To represent weight, any participant can have more than 1 share.

Reviewer 3: > In TSS, a threshold number of shares is needed to validate a signature.

I don't think this is correct. You need signatures produced by a threshold number of shares to create an aggregate signature, which is then verifiable with the ledger ID

> - **Polynomial Commitment**: A polynomial commitment is a cryptographic commitment to a polynomial. It enables a committer to commit to a polynomial such that: a)The committer can later reveal the polynomial and prove that it was indeed the committed polynomial and b)The commitment allows verifying evaluations of the polynomial at specific points without revealing the entire polynomial.

Reviewer 3: > a)The committer can later reveal the polynomial and prove that it was indeed the committed polynomial

This may be a property of polynomial commitments, but I don't think it is relevant to our system.

### Goals

> - **Usability:** Design a user-friendly library that is easy to integrate with consensus-node code and block-node code.

Author: Windows amd64, Linux amd64 and arm64, and MacOS amd64 and arm64.

> - **Usability:** Design a user-friendly library that is easy to integrate with consensus-node code and block-node code.

Author: Change library to libraries in the plural, as we provide both things but in different libraries.

> - **EVM support:** Our implementation must be supported by EVM.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **EVM compatibility:** The implementation must compatible / easy integrateable to our EVM implementation (like by using a given Plugin API of the EVM)
```

> - **Security:** Our APIS should use audited code and be able to pass security audits both internal and external.

Reviewer 3: `APIS` -> `APIs`

- **Flexibility**: Minimize the impact of introducing support for other elliptic curves. 

> - **Independent Release:** Design release cycle independent components that can be used both in the consensus node and in the future block node.

Author: Thanks!

### Non-Goals

> - Build our own cryptography library implementation that supports EC-curves from the gecko in Java.

Reviewer 3: > from the gecko
 
I don't understand what this means. Did you intend to say "from the get go"? Or is does "gecko" mean something here

Author: It was "from the get go", but changed the whole sentence.

> - Build our own cryptography library implementation that supports EC-curves from the gecko in Java.

Author: I added it and then took it back; what would be your preferred wording for this point? 

It cannot be that it will not be publicly available or accessible because it will be open source and publicly available. Do we care if there are external users of this library? It is not the primary design goal, but neither is it for metrics or config API...

### External References
- https://andrea.corbellini.name/2015/05/17/elliptic-curve-cryptography-a-gentle-introduction/
- https://www.iacr.org/archive/asiacrypt2001/22480516.pdf
- https://hackmd.io/@benjaminion/bls12-381#Motivation
- https://www.johannes-bauer.com/compsci/ecc/

## Changes

### Core Behaviors

The proposed TSS solution combines EC-Cryptography primitives that allow for short aggregable signatures, assignation of multiple shares per shareholder to represent participants' weight,
and combines Shamir's secret sharing with ElGamal public key encryption and groth21 for zero-knowledge proofs.

#### Description of the Scheme

> An operator will generate a long-living persisting ec private/public key pair for each participant of the scheme.

Reviewer 3: `long-living persisting` is less clear than simply `persistent`

this phrase also appears elsewhere in this doc, if you decide to make the change

> An operator will generate a long-living persisting ec private/public key pair for each participant of the scheme.

Reviewer 3: `ec` -> `EC`

> An operator will generate a long-living persisting ec private/public key pair for each participant of the scheme.

Author: Yep, this was an error, I was assuming a single operator for all nodes.

> The operator will distribute the public key of every participant to the other participants in the scheme.

Reviewer 3: > The operator will distribute the public key of every participant

Won't the operator just distribute _its own_ public key to other participants?

Author: yes, I was assuming only one operator for the whole scheme, but makes no sense if we think of nodes and that they will have different operators.

The following section describes the process from a particular participant's point of view after the key distribution happened:

##### Input
* Participant's lifelong persisting EC private key (Private to each participant)
* Number of participants (Public)

> * Amount of shares per participant (Public)

Reviewer 3: nit: `amount of` should be used with uncountable nouns. Since "shares" are countable, this should be `number of`

(also appears elsewhere in this doc)

Author: Thanks!

* All participants' lifelong persisting  EC public key (Public)

> * A predefined `SignatureSchema` that defines the type of Curve to use, and which Group of the Pairing is used for PublicKey Generation (Public)

Author: The scheme relies on this been agreed before start.
I guess that it will be a configuration we will load in the platform side.
It doesn't work if each participant defines a different `SignatureScheme`

#####  Bootstrap Stage

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: extraneous newline

(Shamir’s Secret Sharing)
###### 1. Create  shares

> Given directory that identifies each participant uniquely, their amount of shares and EC Public Keys; the current participant and its EC Private Key, and the predefined threshold

Reviewer 3: "Given *a* directory"

E.g: In a scheme distributing 10 shares over 4 participants
```
Directory:
P   # shares
-----------------------------
P₁  5        P₁_EC_PublicKey
P₂  2        P₂_EC_PublicKey
P₃  1        P₃_EC_PublicKey
P₄  2        P₄_EC_PublicKey

Current Participant: (P₁;  P₁_EC_PrivateKey)
threshold: 5
```

###### 2. Create ShamSecretShareMessage 
(Shamir's secret-sharing: polynomial interpolation)

Create `ShareId` directory
```

> sid₁	sid₂	sid₃	sid₄	sid₅	sid₆	sid₇	sid₈	sid₉	sid₁₀

Author: I was using the word directory as in phone directory or address directory, not in the sense of a folder in the disk.
It is a data structure (Probably a Map) that holds that information in memory.

P₁  	P₁  	P₁  	P₁  	P₁  	P₂  	P₂  	P₃  	P₄  	P₄  
```

> Given participant's `privateKey`: `k` (the secret being shared), each shareholder will produce `n` (n=total number of shares) values `xₛ` by introducing `k`'s EC field element in a polynomial `Pₖ` for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ` in the directory

Reviewer 3: If might be more appropriate to call this a `privateShare` as opposed to a `privateKey`, to differentiate from the persistent EC private key each participant has.

Author: As I wrote, I meant exactly the Ec provateKey because of the code we just reviewed. 
I will correct this statement to reflect our conversation

Author: Later in the document I propose:

```
`Share`
|_  `ProprietaryShare`
|_  `ExternalShare`
```
PrivateShare has a correlation with the privatekey that originates it, but although I know that the meaning, in this case, is ownership instead of exposition, it still sounds off to my non-native-english ear to put together the words: private and share.
 
 In this sense, a privateKey is a key that is not disclosed (also that you own)
And a proprietaryShare is a share you own among another set of shares you don't. The whole protocol is set so it can be distributed (in that sense is not so private)

> Given participant's `privateKey`: `k` (the secret being shared), each shareholder will produce `n` (n=total number of shares) values `xₛ` by introducing `k`'s EC field element in a polynomial `Pₖ` for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ` in the directory

Reviewer 3: > introducing `k`'s EC field element in a polynomial `Pₖ` for each `ShareId`

I think a clearer way to express this is: `evaluating a polynomial Pₖ at each ShareId`

> Given participant's `privateKey`: `k` (the secret being shared), each shareholder will produce `n` (n=total number of shares) values `xₛ` by introducing `k`'s EC field element in a polynomial `Pₖ` for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ` in the directory

Author: > Is k the private key? aka the secret being shared?

I changed that before your review. The idea is that each shareholder's share has a secret value k. You use that value for signing, and when rehashing (or rekeying), you use it to generate new shares.

> What is xₛ? What does the sub s stand for? 

A value x is generated for each participant-owned share s by evaluating the polynomial: Pₖ(s.id). `s.id`== `ShareId`

>What is a ShareId? Is it a unique identifier for each generated share? When new shares are generated when the roster changes, will ids be reused?

It's a unique identifier for each generated share, exactly. It is deterministic in the sense that f(i) returns the same value for each i. It doesn't really matter the ID, it is only necessary that they are values that are unique per share, non-0, and that can be used in the polynomial (They are from the same field of the selected curve)
When rehashing, you need to know the shares you own and the shares you owned.

```
   xₛ=Pₖ(sidₛ) for privateKey: k and each ShareId: sidₛ
```

> Each `xₛ` constitutes points in the polynomial.

Reviewer 3: I think this would be more accurately stated:

`Each xₛ constitutes a point on the polynomial`

> The polynomial `Pₖ` is a polynomial with grade `t-1` (t=threshold) created with random coefficients from `SignatureScheme.publicKeyGroup` and `k`'s EC field element in `aₒ` and `x` each `sidₛ`

Reviewer 3: I've never heard "grade" used this way. Do you mean "degree"?

Author: I did thanks.

> (ElGammal)

Reviewer 3: `ElGamal`

> Once each `xₛ` value has been calculated for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ`, the value: `SecretShareMessage`:`Mₛ` will be produced by encrypting `xₖ` using `sidₛ` owner's publicKey.

Reviewer 3: > Once each `xₛ` value has been calculated for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ`...

Nit: there is only 1 `xₛ` for each share ID, so the sentence should read

"Once _the_ `xₛ` value has been calculated for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ`"...

> Once each `xₛ` value has been calculated for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ`, the value: `SecretShareMessage`:`Mₛ` will be produced by encrypting `xₖ` using `sidₛ` owner's publicKey.

Reviewer 3: >by encrypting `xₖ`

Do you mean "by encrypting `xₛ`"?

> Once each `xₛ` value has been calculated for each `ShareId`: `sidₛ`, the value: `SecretShareMessage`:`Mₛ` will be produced by encrypting `xₖ` using `sidₛ` owner's publicKey.

Reviewer 3: > `SecretShareMessage`:`Mₛ`

This seems to suggest that a separate message `Mₛ` will be produced for each share ID, when in reality a *single* `SecretShareMessage` is produced, which included encrypted elements intended for each share ID. Right?

Author: you are right, we produce a value Mₛ for each s, all those values are provided in a single SecretShareMessage

![img_4.png](img_4.png)

`SecretShareMessage`: A data structure for distributing the secret among all participants.

Non-encrypted public information is packed in the `SecretShareMessage`, including a commitment to `Pₖ` and a Groth21 zk-SNARKs proof.

![img_5.png](img_5.png)

###### 4. Distribution of SecretShareMessages

> Using a channel established outside the scope of the scheme, each participant will distribute a single message to the other participants in a limited time window.

Reviewer 3: > each participant will distribute a single message to the other participants

This strikes me as ambiguous. Is this saying that "each participant will broadcast a single message to be received by all participants"? Or is it saying that "each participant will create and send a unique message to each participant"?

I believe it's the first

Author: first one, used your wording
